I'm now starting my first hour of data science practice. I'll start by asking myself the basic questions in The First 20 Hours. 

1. Choose a lovable project. 
I'm interested in data visualization, so I'd like to learn to make data come alive, in some sense. I've tried to use some tools in the past, but I haven't been able to make the graphics I'd like to. Interactive data visualizations offer a great way to explore large data sets. In other words, I've tried to learn things in this field, and have succeeded to a degree, but it still takes me a long time to make mediocre visualizations. 

2. Focus your energy on one skill at a time. 
I've often gotten distracted by other projects. For instance, I'm likely to be distracted by learning about chess or artificial intelligence. For the moment, I'll have to silence these urges and focus solely on data visualization. 

3. Define your target performance level. 
I've seen some of Bret Victor's work, and I've really enjoyed it. I've tried to make some things like it, but have not created anything nearly as nice. I'd like to be able to create things as good (or better!?) than displayed in his Ladder of Abstraction post, but do it very quickly. Let's say, I'd like to be able to take a data set or algorithm, and create a visualization of Bret Victor's quality in a single hour. Right now, it seems like it might take me twenty hours. (Or at least feel like 20 hours.)

4. Deconstruct the skills into subskills. 
Perhaps I could break data visualization into a few subskills: 
Data acquisition, data analysis, visualization design, styling, debugging, deployment, sharing, static images, dynamic imagery. 

At some level, you've got a lot of data, and you'd like to take user feedback to explore it. Among the problems faced in data visualization is obtaining good data, second is managing user feedback effectively, and lastly, one should be able to deploy the graphic. 

So, for now, I'll say there are three subtasks: 
 - Obtain and manage data
 - Design visualization (interfaces and interactions and goals)
 - Implementing a visualization

5. Obtain important tools. 
What tools are important when it comes to data visualization? 
There might be a few books on the matter, but there are also a number of programming tools which should be installed. I suspect that D3.js and its variants should be installed, along with matplotlib, perhaps. I'm not sure what other tools are required. There will presumably be some need to research this. 

6. Eliminate barriers to practice. 
The major barriers to practice are probably impromptu conversations, email checking, and zulip-conversing. Avoiding each of these things throughout each practice period is probably a prerequisite for success. 

7. Make dedicated time for practice. 
This shouldn't be too hard, since I plan to spend my entire waking day at Hacker School working on these things. There should be time (hopefully) to practice for around 8-10 hours. I don't know whether it will be possible to focus this long on a subject in a useful way, but I will certainly find out. 

8. Create fast feedback loops
This may require some help from other HSers that have had more experience with data visualization. Besides that, there will just be a problem of investing in a good programming setup, or design process for graphics. For instance, it might be a good idea to mock up a graphic before coding it up. It might also be possible to improve my coding setup to automate common tasks. 

9. Practice by the clock in short bursts. 
Right now, I'm planning on using one-hour periods to focus on a project, but I could split that up further and instead practice ever smaller skills.

When it comes to each subproblem in data visualization, I think I could identify several ways to practice it. For instance, I might practice obtaining data by taking ten minutes to download as much data as possible about chess moves or bird migrations or whatever. I could repeat this process multiple times over the course of an hour to become ever faster at finding and getting data into a usable form. 

Right now, I'm sort of failing in this respect. I'm not imposing any short-term structure on my practice, other than constraining the period to an hour. I should probably break each period into 15-minute chunks from now on. 

10. Emphasize quantity and speed. 
Given the parable of the clay pots (the more pots you make, the better they turn out to be), I understand I should focus on trying to visualize as many things as possible.  Perhaps I should also note that not all visualizations need be dynamic. I actually think I'll constrain all my project to be dynamic visualizations, but I may limit the scope in the beginning. Therefore, I could require that I use only a short period, or only a small dataset, or only a small portion of a visualization library. It's easy to limit the scope of a project, though it may be difficult to stay within the predefined scope you choose. 

How can I motivate myself to produce as many cycles of trial and error as possible? 

One way would be to aim for a record, or to aim to create a repository with as many examples as possible. 

I'm really not sure how to motivate myself to focus on speed and quantity. Perhaps I should again limit the scope of the entire project, and take the Bruce Lee advice of 'practicing one kick a thousand times'. If I could choose only three skills to practice, which ones would they be? Getting data, plotting it dynamically, and making the result beautiful. I really do want my work to be beautiful. Therefore, I need to practice that, because it's often a time-consuming part of my work. I'm often very quick when it comes to designing a visualization. 

11. (From Tim Ferris) Have stakes that depend on your skills. The stakes in this case are simply. Tomorrow, you'll give a talk on how to produce awesome, interactive visualizations. You WILL give a talk on the subject, and the talk will be crappy if you fail to keep focused. Therefore, it's imperative that you maintain focus on the goal of maximizing the speed of development. 

---- Learning (not skill-building)
1. Research the skill and related topics. 
I've found some good resources in Bret Victor's work (and Randall Munroe's), and I know there are many more great ways to learn to visualize data. 

2. Jump in over your head. 
According to this principle, I should try reading about visualizations that are very complex, or perhaps be reading the source code of such visualizations. In other words, if you aren't in a high state of confusion, then you aren't moving fast enough. This isn't to say you should maintain yourself in a state of constant frustration, but only that you should constantly be learning. 

3. Identify analogies
Craft analogies for how data visualizations work, or how the design process works.

4. Imagine the opposite of what you want. 
This is easy. I would hate to be able to produce only static, crappy-looking visualizations of small datasets that nevertheless take a long time to build. 

5. Talk to practitioners to set expectations. 
I'm not sure what to do here. I know of Victor's work, and what is possible, so I don't think I want to settle for less.

6. Eliminate distractions. 
7. Use spaced repetition for memorization. 
It's a useful idea -> you should be able to recite by memory the top strategies for visualizing data. You should be able to recall the most important things about each subskill -> How to get data (the sites involved, or programs used to handle data), designing visualizations (the type of interactions that are common, the types of visualizations), implementing the graphics (libraries, apis, methods, build tools, editors). 

8. Create scaffolds and checklists and cheatsheats
Encode as much information as possible in as pithy a form as possible. Make it difficult to forget or leave out important steps. Make notes of common errors, pitfalls, and timewasters. Create scaffolds so it's easy to start new projects. 
9. Make and test predictions. 
It's a good idea to make clear, falsifiable predictions, then seek to falsify them. With regard to graphics, it might be good to form theories about what types of graphics are most useful. 

10. Honor your biology. 
Take advantage of the normal ebb and flow of energy throughout the day. Eat in a healthy way, work out to increase energy. Try to get into good shape so you can think more effectively. Also make sure to take breaks in a useful way. 

-----
Next Steps
-----

One possibility for the next few hours is to try practicing each of the three subtasks: 

1. Getting data and exploring it
2. Designing visualizations
3. Implementing visualizations
(4.) Styling visualizations

I'll take the next hour to focus on each of these for 15 minutes. During that time, I'll explore some blogs if necessary to answer my questions. 

I'll get a head start right now by asking some basic questions about each of these subproblems. 

1. Getting data and exploring it. 
	What are the difficulties involved in getting data? 
	 - sometimes data will be in odd formats that are difficult to work with. 
	 - some datasets might be too large to work with in a flat file
2. Designing visualizations
 	What kinds of visualizations should you consider making? 
 	What kinds of visualizations have you found useful? 
 	 - Perhaps I should focus on creating a small set of visualizations. 
 	If you could only create one kind of visualization, what would it be? 
 	 - ladder of abstraction for sure - the final graph - area/color/axis/point/lower-level display
3. Implementing visualizations
	What tools are relevant? 
	What tools are hardest to learn? 
	Is it obvious which tools are best?
	What are you looking for in you tools? 
	What is the pipeline from raw data to launched graphics
4. Styling
	What are the primary time-consumers for visualizations? 
	What are the common mistakes? 
	 - spacing, whitespace, sizing, lines placement, subtle graphical features, interactive elements, speed, code clarity
