So, I defined some of the data that I'll need, but I still have some work to do. 
I've defined the data for the primary view, and for the point view. Now it's time to define the data required for each axis. 

For the X-axis view, I'll be showing some data for a single game. The number of pieces after each move, and the difference in the number of pieces between the players. 

I haven't really thought much about what should happen when hovering on a axis view. I suppose hovering on an x-axis view should show a point view. There should be a translucent vertical line on the display, and you should be able to hover over each line to see the relevant point value. 

Then, for a y-axis view, I guess it should just show some numeric data relevant to the histogram bar being hovered over. Also, it might be good to show two distributions: one for total points, and one for difference in points. Perhaps the distribution of advantages should be in a subset plot in the corner of the main plot. 

Given this design, what's next? 
I'll need to define the data for each one. 

So, for the X-axis view, I'll be displaying the number of pieces for each game, and the difference in pieces. 

At this point, it's also worth noting that pieces aren't a good measure of advantage. It's rather the total value of the pieces. Since each piece has a value, and the queen is worth more than a pawn, it's worth taking these points into consideration, rather than the pieces themselves. 

In any case, this is the data that's needed (representing a single game: 
{
	nPointsWhite: [],
	nPointsBlack: []
}

For the y-axis view, the following data will be required: 

{
	nGamesWithPoints: {nPoints: nGames} <- key=nPoints (e.g. 23), value = nGames (e.g. 25 games have 23 points at this move)
	nGamesWithAdvantage: {nPointsAdvantage: nGames} <- key=number of points advantage, value = number of games with that advantage at some move number
}

These two data structures should make it easy to bin things in other ways. The default here is to have a one-point bin, but I'll include a slider or something so larger bins can be accessed easily.

Having defined the data required for each graphic, a few questions are in the air. 
First, how will this data be generated? More specifically, what data will be precomputed, and what data will be computed as the program runs? I'd like to limit the loading time of the page, but the plots need to operate smoothly. I'll have to see how much computation can be done live while still maintaining smooth graphics. 

Ideally, I'd precompute nothing. This would mean I'd only have to load a small amount of data, then use it to generate everything else on the fly. 

Given the amount of data, however, I suspect there are parts of the system that will need to be precomputed. I suppose this issue will only become relevant later on, once the real data has entered the pipeline. 

---
For now, I need to implement each of the small visualizations. I suppose I'll start with the distribution plot. The structure of this application is interesting, and might be well-suited by noFlo (rather than React), since I really have separate graphs which should recompute as their data changes. Since I know React, I'll probably stick with it for now though. 

What needs to happen next? 

I need to create a simple dataset with my desired properties, then plot it with D3.js. At the very start, I'll make the graph work with only a single dataset, then I'll make sure it can handle transitions well (between two datasets.)