Over the course of this hour, I'll try to do the following: 
1. Specify the types and ranges of data input to the Y-Axis chart. 
2. Find d3.js example with the right form
3. Make up some data of the right form
4. Try to put new data into the example chart

So, to start off, I determined that the data inputs to the Y-Axis chart is: 

For the y-axis view, the following data will be required: 
{
	nGamesWithPoints: {nPoints: nGames},
	nGamesWithAdvantage: {nPointsAdvantage: nGames}
}

This data has the following properties. 

nGamesWithPoints: 
key=nPoints (e.g. 23), value = nGames (e.g. 25 games have 23 points at this move)

Since there are 39 points for each player, there will be 78 total points possible in any given game. In fact, this will be a common key because every game starts with 78 points. 

The number associated with each key may be as high as T, the total number of games under consideration. 

So, there are up to 78 (positive) integer keys, with value up to (positive)integer N.

nGamesWithAdvantage: 
key=number of points advantage, value = number of games with that advantage at some move number

It's a bit more difficult to define the range of advantages. As a worst case, one player could have all their pieces but the king, and the other player could have all their pieces. In this case, the advantage would be +39 (if white had the advantage). Since I need to refer to both positive and negative advantages, and no advantage, there could be up to 79 keys, each with an associated value with max value T.

This will help to define the axes as well. 

The x and y axes will be: 
x: npoints  [78,0] 
y: percent games [0,100]

I may want to change the point scale to refer to percentage of pieces. 

# D3 example 

Having defined the form of the data, it's time to find an example to work with. I just need a bar chart, as far as I can tell. 

[This](http://alignedleft.com/tutorials/d3/making-a-bar-chart) is a good example. 
[This](http://tonygarcia.me/slides/d3chartintro/#example10) Is much more impressive, actually. 

[This](http://bl.ocks.org/Caged/6476579) is good for adding tooltips.