# I'm trying to mock up the data for the distribution chart. What should I use? 

I don't quite know what data structure to use. 

My confusion arose from my desire to include all the moves in a single data structure. That's not quite right. I'll be displaying one chart for a given move number. So, I'd choose, say, move 21, and all games that were at least 21 moves long would be included in the analysis. Then I'd check all the games and increment a counter for each number of points. 

I'm still a bit confused now. I think it's possible to put together a nice algorithm which creates all the distributions in one go, without having to traverse games more than once. 

First, I'll take a game. On the first move, it should have a total of 78 points (I'll deal with the advantage counter later.). 

I'll have a list called moveDists which will be as long as the longest game. The first element of this list will hold the distribution of points for all games' first moves. I'm iterating by game, rather than by move (and repeatedly calling up different games). So, I'll iterate through the first game in the following way. 

- Move 1, Game had 78 points. 
  Get moveDists, edit first element, lookup or create key corresponding to 78, increment value for this key. 

I'll need to work out a few kinks in the algorithm. First, should I initialize the moveDists list with a length equal to the number of moves in the longest game? Should I add keys corresponding to every point value up to 78? I think both of these things make for nicer looking code, so I'll create the full data structure to start. 