In this hour, I'll try to use the data I generated in Python to create a D3.js bar chart. I found a good example of a bar chart, so I'll try to change out the data and see if I can get the example to work. 

example: http://tonygarcia.me/slides/d3chartintro/#example10

My four subproblems for the hour include the following: 
1. Identify what needs to be changed in the D3 example to suit my needs
2. Read the presentation on the visualization
3. Attempt to alter one part of the visualization
4. Attempt a static version of the plot

---
Changes:
 d3.csv -> d3.json

Primary questions: 
How do I get data into the visualization?
How do I make elements interactive?
How do I style the chart? 

---
1. Set dimensions of SVG
I'll want to make my charts responsive, but to start, I'll just hardcode some values here. 

2. Create SVG element
In this case, you'll need to select a tag (the example uses the body tag), then add a child SVG element, then you actually set attributes like dimensions.

3. Load data
The has three parts: getting a particular file, making any necessary changes to dataset, then creating the chart when the data is ready. 

---
The first problem I'll need to solve is getting my data into the proper format. 
Right now, I have a JSON file with a data structure of this form:

file: [moveDist]
moveDist: {nPoints:nGames}
nPoints: Int
nGames: Int

In words, I have a list where each element corresponds to a move in a game. So, the first element shows the distribution of point across the first move of all games. 

The chart will only ever show the distribution for a single move, so the first thing I'll need to do is just take the first element of my array and use that. 
