I'm still debugging my code. The d3.json call seems to be giving me some trouble. 

Though it's listed with an optional second parameter, it doesn't seem to be working. 
In looking at the source, it seems that there's only a call for 2 parameters.

---
I've just gotten the data to work. I suspect that d3 handles data best as a list of objects, each with some associated properties. The object should contain, for instance, it's labels and coordinates. 

In any case, now that I've got some data showing, what's my next step? 

What are the next problems? 
1. Fix x labels - there are far too many
2. Add axis labels
3. Change fonts to raleway or open sans
4. Fix position and size of bar labels
5. Add control for bin size
6. Make chart square
7. Change color to blue-black

There are lots of problems to work on. One potential course of action is to use D3's histogram-displaying functionality. Let me come up with three types of things to change here. 

1. Interactivity - moves & bin sizes
2. Style - fonts, colors, transitions, layout, lines
3. Content - axes, labels, tooltips

The first thing I'll do is get the interactivity working. The most important feature to implement is the interactive playing through each move. 

It might also be cool to try to create a smoother, curve-fitted version of the distribution which can be overlaid on the bars. 

What needs to happen to implement the move-selector? 
The first thing is to add a slider. I think D3 provides a slider, so I'll try it out. Once I can show a slider's output, I'll need to reanimate the graphic with new data. This will be the main challenge. 