I'd like to see if Elm can ease my pain. I'll try to reimplement the same graphic there, and perhaps even make it nicer. 

So, here's the hour plan:
1. Try to build a bar chart
2. Discuss the design issues for an Elm-based data visualization
3. Continue trying to build basic bar chart
4. Try to base visualization on user input somehow. 


---
One of the first things to do is set up the position of each bar. It's not so straightforward to define the position of each bar without iteration. So, I suspect I'll have to use recursion. 

To recurse through a list, and keep track of the index, something like the following might work. 

createBars list barwidth index = 
	first bar :: rest of bars

the first bar will be something like: 
filled red (rect barwidth (head list)) |> move (index * barwidth,0)

the the rest of bars will be something like: 
createBars (tail list) barwidth (index + 1)

and there will need to be a stopping condition: 

here's the example from the elm documentation: 

case xs of
  hd::tl -> Just (hd,tl)
  []     -> Nothing

case n of
  0 -> 1
  1 -> 1
  _ -> fib (n-1) + fib (n-2)

In my case, I'll need to do something like:

case list of
	[] -> []
	head::tail -> stuff


The type of the function also needs to be determined. 

The arguments are List, Int, and Int
The output is [Form]

So the type declaration is List -> Int -> Int -> [Form]

So, I think I have everything I need to implement the function: 

createbars: List -> Int -> Int -> [Form]
createbars list barWidth i = 
	case list of
		[] -> []
		head::tail -> 
			let firstBar = filled red (rect barwidth head) |> move (index * barwidth, 0)
				restBars = createBars tail barwidth (index + 1)
			in	
				first :: rest 

This is the entire file I've got so far: 

myData = [10,20,30,40,50,60]

---=------------

config = {
  h = 400, 
  w = 400
  }


main = barchart myData config

--main = asText myData

barchart dataset config = 
  let c = config
      barWidth = c.w // (length dataset)
  in collage c.w c.h (createBars dataset barWidth 0)
  
createBars: [number] -> number -> number -> [Form]
createBars list barWidth i = 
  case list of
    [] -> []
    head::tail -> 
      let firstBar = filled red (rect barWidth head) |> move (i * barWidth - , (head / 2))
          restBars = createBars tail barWidth (i + 1) 
      in firstBar :: restBars

------------------