I'm going to analyze each of the four subproblems now. 

# To start off with, I'll address the problem of getting data. 
What are the problems involved? What is the worst case scenario? 
 - I suppose the worst case scenario is that the data to solve a problem is unavailable. 
What are the subskills in obtaining useful data? 
 - I can think of three basic ways to obtain data: scraping, apis, downloads
Should I try to learn and practice each of these techniques? 
 - Not scraping (for now at least). That just seems painful, error-prone, and nasty. For now, I'd be happy to focus purely on downloaded data. I'd be open to working with an API to get data at some point, but not until I'm comfortable with downloaded data. 
Having found that your data exists and can be downloaded, what other problems might pop up? 
 - Perhaps the format of the data is difficult to use. What are the formats in which data are most often available? 

 ---
 After trying to find and download some useful chess data, I found my approach was flawed. First, I didn't know what data I was looking for. There are millions of games of chess. Which ones are relevant to you? Perhaps it would be good to focus on recent tournaments. I might want to consider a single event, or a single person. My hazy mental model when looking for data was, "all of it?". 

 Also, I'm not sure what form of data I want. I'm at least familiar with CSV files and the like, but I don't quite know what I'm looking for. I'll need something to eventually be represented as JSON, probably. 

# Next, I'll concern myself with the problem of designing a visualization. 
 What are the main problems of visualization design? 
  - Data is used to criticize, and thus corroborate a theory. 
  - What are the theories? 
 Should you know what theories you're forming before designing a visualization? 
 Perhaps it's best to identify a class of theories, that are rendered testable with a given design. Is it possible to test the dependence of a trend on time, or some other factor, or not? 

 Perhaps it's best to try to construct the reach of a graphic - the class of theories it can falsify or contradict. 

 What are the three questions when designing a visualization? 
  - What problem does this visualization solve? 
  - What interactions should be available? 
  - How should the visualization be deployed? 

 Let me try to design a visualization. 
 It will be about chess. 

 First, what aspect of chess would you like to explore? 
  - I'd like to explore pawn structures
 What types of theories would you like to explore? 
  - Frequency of certain structures in games with particular openings
  - Combinations of pawn structures
  - Complementary (black/white) pawn structures
  - Historical variation in pawn structures
  - small/large pawn structures
 What types of requirements do these classes of theories impose on the visualization? 
  - Presence of pawn structure information in vis. data
  - Data on opening types
  - Total num. of games, and count of each types of structure
  - -
  - There must be a way to distinguish different openings
  - There must be a way to distinguish frequency of structures
  - Relationships among structures (on a side and between sides)

It's worth noting that there's a good deal of work in generating all the data (or metadata) to falsify this large class of theories. 

Second, I'll have to limit the space of falsifiable theories I'm addressing in a visualization. 

# Third, I want to address the implementation of a visualization. 
What are the problems here? 
 - historically, I've created lots of plots in matlab and python, using Matplotlib, but these plots aren't dynamic. 
 - To make dynamic plots, I've learned javascript, and I've at least heard of D3.js
 - I've also used react to structure client-side data flows

How can I make the process of implementing a visualization as easy as possible? 
 - It may be possible to create a DSL for a particular type of visualization. 
 - It's clear that you could create a library to implement a small class of visualizations. It's less clear what progress might be made with regard to general visualizations. 
 - I should settle on a good set of tools and automate their use. 

Let's say you decide that, in the next hour, you're going to create a dynamic vis. where you display this data over time, and allow a user to hover over a particular point to see how much was spent on something at a given time. 

 - Presumably, I'd have a CSV file to start. I'd begin by converting this to JSON in Python. Then, I'd either hardcode this data into a javascript file, or separate it and GET it from within a Clientside JS script. 
 - Once the data was available, I'd use it to create a chart using D3.js
 - The hardest part, or the one that now consumes my attention, is the creation of user controls like sliders and such, and the making of a beautiful front-end. (I'll cover this in the next part, though. )
 - Really, the hardest part will be using D3.js to display the data in a sensible, if ugly way. 
 - It might also be a slight pain to set up my development environment to get quick feedback. For instance, I'll likely have to remind myself how to use yeoman or grunt compile coffeescript and so on. I might also benefit from using other languages and just compiling to JS. 
 - In the end, it's just a pain to have to use HTML, CSS, and JS, so perhaps I could use Elm to make dynamic visualizations easier. 
 - It's worth considering if Elm would be useful in creating Bret Victor's stuff. 

# Lastly, what are the subskills involved with making graphs beautiful? 
 There are a few ways to segment everything. Perhaps the first is graphic design, HTML/CSS, color schemes, tone of the visualization, presence of text, type of interactions, transitions, Jquery. 

 Perhaps I'll be able to use GSS finally, so as to ease the process of styling my documents. 

 I might also create some programs to scaffold my starting a project. 

 Suppose you're given a working visualization, perhaps like Victor's graph visualization of chess moves. How would you turn it into a professional-looking app?

 - First, I'd create a mockup, then I'd visualize the types of interactions I'd like to see, then I'd try to implement these ideas in CSS and javascript. 
 - one common problem that I've yet to address is the use of transitions with React or Elm. It's not at all clear how to manage these nice graphical features in an unusual sort of program structure. 

 Perhaps I should focus on understanding what makes graphics beautiful and a joy to use. Maybe I should be thinking about clarity, or the use of subtle explanations of how a graphic works. For instance, a transition can be used to show connections between certain elements, and could be really useful in helping explain, implicitly, how to use an interactive visualization. 

 Phrases differently, your design should clearly explain itself in subtle ways. Bad operations should be impossible and hard-to-phrase. The right operations should be plain to see. You might try limiting yourself to having only 5 or 10 words on a visualization (at a time). 

 What other subproblems are there? 
  - There general graphic design - like color schemes, ratios, spacing, curves, bezier polynomials, prototyping tools, quickly converting mockups to actual stylesheets. 

----
All told, I've now tried to give some thought to four subproblems of data visualization. I've tried to find further subproblems within each of these, and I've tried to identify the holes in my knowledge. 

What's the next step? 
From here, it's natural to move on to getting data for an hour. Perhaps it would be worth reading a blog post. What is the best case scenario? The best case scenario would be the instantaneous availability of any source of data, in any format. The closer I can get to that ideal, the better. This may involve finding what sources of data are easiest to use, or what questions to ask when looking for a data set. 

I'll structure my next hour as follows: 
1. Read a blog post on how to find data
2. Try to download several chess datasets (must be one or more games, from any source)
3. Having found a few datasets, try to do something interesting with them - load into Python and try to display subsets, find patterns, or create simple plots
4. Try to find and download a large chess dataset. 