Notes:
1. Interesting error - D3 requires UTF-8 encoding, since it uses characters like Pi, Tau, and Epsilon (thanks to a short Hacker School talk, I realized this quickly)
2. Need to investigate how Transform2D library works - it seems to alter the coordinates of the canvas -> all operations subsequent to the transform (and even before?) act with the new scale, rather than the old. 
I've now implemented a crappy (but functional) version of my distribution chart. There are several paths to take from here. 

1. Start using real data
2. Start creating other charts
3. Improve quality of current graph
4. Write a post on the progress so far

I'd like to either improve the current chart, since I may just leave my project at that, or start mocking up the rest of the visualizations. 

For the next hour, I'll try to implement my main view chart -> move | game | nPoints
---
The implementation will be a bit like the bar chart. 

I'll call this chart the gameChart. 

So, what are the inputs to the game chart? 
It'll take in the simulated games, rather than the moveDistributions. 

In JSON, here's what I'll need: 
{
	games: 
		[
			{
				nPieces: [], <- # of pieces after each move
				date: 14034800
			}
		]
}

In a more typed way, this would be: 

file: [game]
game: {nPieces: [Int], data: Date}

I may omit the date when sending the data to Elm. As long as the games are in the proper order when sent to Elm, then there won't be a need for the date. Perhaps I should eventually send the date to Elm - I'm not sure yet. 

In any case, it's time to return to Python, and put together this JSON file. 

--
The python work is done, so now there's just a little bit left to do in Javascript and Elm. (More than a little bit, really.)

Let me think about the construction of the chart. This one will have a number of rectangles, each with three parameters: x-index, y-index, and color

I suspect it would be good to break the construction of the graphic into three parts: 

1. rectangle (move)
2. column (game)
3. chart (all games)
