I'm going to start putting together the new visualization. 

I suspect it would be good to break the construction of the graphic into three parts: 

1. rectangle (move)
2. column (game)
3. chart (all games)

I suppose I'll call a chart function which call the others. 

---

chart: [[number]] -> Element
chart dataset = map createColumn dataset |> arrange

---

There are several issues to take care of here: 
1. It's difficult to set the x-position, since this has to be varied based on index (I've tried recursion, which works, but there may be a better approach.)
2. It's difficult to size things properly. Especially across the y-dimension
3. It would be great to create an axis command that's a bit like Matlab. This would help make plotting much easier. I'm not quite sure how to approach this problem. 

---
Let me consider the basic approach. I'll need to start with the outline of the graphic and the data. In other words, I'll have a function which takes in something like the window dimensions and some arbitrary data. 

From there, I'll be able to dictate the height and width of individual bars. Then, given particular bars, I'll be able to dictate their width and height. 

Let me start writing this sort of program: 

chart: {w: number, h: number} -> [[number]] -> Element
chart config dataset = 
	let c = config
		barWidth = c.w `div` (length dataset)
		bars = ?
	in collage c.w c.h bars

How will the bar list be generated? 

The type of the bars function will be: 
bars: number -> number -> [number] -> [Form]

In this case, I've defined the function's interface to take in the width and height of the bar itself, and then a color list. The length of the color list will dictate how many smaller rectangles are in the visualization. The values will dictate the colors each smaller rectangle. 

bars w h c = 
	let unitHeight = h / (length c)
	in ?

How should I create the smaller units? 
This is the same problem I solved earlier with the recursion, when I had to set the x-position of the bars. 

I think I should try out a new solution to this problem to hide the messy detail of iteration/recursion. 

To to do this, I might create a list of indexes, then pair that with original data. This would allow me to use a map, rather than an explicitly recursive function. 

In this case, I'd be given a data set, and then I'd generate a set of indexes, pair this with the origal data, then map over the entire set. 

Another solution is to create a data structure which specifies how all the individual elements should be built, and then, later on, turn these all into elements. Right now, I'm creating elements at the earliest opportunity. It might be better to delay this process. One thing that might cause problems later is that I'll want hover activity over each small element. If all the small elements have been subsumed into other forms (via the 'group' function), then it may not be possible to use any hover functionality. 

Let me take some time to assess this approach. There are several steps in it. 
1. Define global properties of chart
2. Progressively define the smaller features of the chart
3. Collect all parts of chart into single list
4. Preprocess to align properly or make other changes
5. Turn all parts into elements

Perhaps this approach should have a createElements function, rather than a createBars one. If I do this, then what is the effect? The barWidth variable is still relevant, but I won't be grouping anything explicitly into a bar. Actually, if I'm not going to do that, then I should just specify an elementWidth, or just 'w'. 

And, in some sense, I will be generating columns or bars. They'll just be lists of configurations, rather than actual Elements. 

Let me try to implements the basic ideas here: 

chart: {w: number, h: number} -> [[number]] -> Element
chart config dataset = 
	let c = config
		w = c.w `div` (length dataset)
		moves = 
	in collage c.w c.h (map (align . render) moves)

render: {x: number, y: number, w: number, h: number, c: number} -> Form
render e = filled e.c (rect e.w e.h) |> move (e.x, e.y)

