Notes: 
1. Consider redesigning PGN, and providing compelling reasons to switch. 
2. (Unrelated) Learn Colemak keyboard layout

Today, I aim to spend 8 hours building my skills in data visualization. I'm not quite sure how to spend my time. Should I try to immediately complete one data visualization problem, or should I instead practice each subskill individually multiple times? For now, I'll opt for the latter. There is a risk, however, in that I may ignore important details that will only become clear when I try to complete an entire data-visualization problem. 

In any case, I'll spend the next few hours doing such things at building skill with D3.js, file formats, and design questions and concerns. 

To start, I'll try to get a chess dataset. The first time I tried, I found this difficult. This was partly because I wasn't sure what I was looking for. This time around, I'll look for Magnus Carlsen's games. I'll count this period a success if I can get 20 of his games on my computer and loaded into Python. 

The skills I'm trying to practice here are: 
 1. Finding data 
 2. Making (simple) use of it
---
I've now got some data. Next, I'll need to see if I can find a library to parse the PGNs that I've found. It might be a good exercise to create the parsing myself, but I'll avoid that for now. 
---
It turns out there are [major problems](http://zuttobenkyou.wordpress.com/2012/01/27/problems-with-the-portable-game-notation-pgn-standard/) with the PGN standard, so it may be a worthwhile project to redesign it and provide a great source of games for others to download. It would be an interesting project to put together at some point. 
---
Anyhow, I'll need to limit my distractions, and just find a python library that can grab pgns and do something useful with them. 
---
It was easy enough to download a python library, but it doesn't seem to recognize all the games in my file. Perhaps I'll have to rearrange it. 

What's the next step? I could read about the general problems of dealing with data, or I could just try to solve the latest problem - getting all the data represented and ready for use. 

What should my first use of the data be? One thing which might be useful is to print out the final FEN for each game. That is, every games should be downloaded, and I should have a FEN string that denotes board position after the last move of each game. 