Notes: 
1. potential blog post: queries and theories (a question dictates the theories that could serve as answers.)

My goal in this hour is to practice the design process for a visualization 

Here are a few questions to ask: 
What class of theories should your visualization render falsifiable/corroborable? 
How will the vis be deployed?
Who is the vis for? 
How will the vis be implemented? 
Who is the audience for the vis? 
What is the objective of the vis? 
Is there a particular theory the vis should corroborate?
Is the vis for purely entertainment value? 
What are the problems that might be present in the vis? 
What interactions should be allowed in the vis? 
How can you make it easy to falsify theories in the falsifiable class? 
How can you minimize the falsification time? 
How could you incorporate statistical knowledge into the graphics? 

If I had to choose three questions, what might I pick? 
- What theories do you wish to falsify? 
- What is the falsifying data for each theory?
- How can theories be falsified most quickly?

When you show a chart, and you explore a data set, what you're doing is noting the data that is available. Let's say there's a stock price vs. time chart. Once you see the axes, you're able to start forming theories which include changes in stock price over time. If specific dates are available, then you can begin to form theories that relate the stock price to other events in a chronological way. 

What are the subproblems involved in designing a graphic? 
What sort of activities have you normally engaged in? 
 - I'll often create a mockup in Inkscape, perhaps preceded by a pen-and-paper set of sketches. I'll also visualize the sort of interactions that should be possible. 

So, what does that mean for your project? 
The design process should require answering the three questions above, and drawing out some of the ideas on paper and in a vector graphics editor. The starting point is conceptual, and the end point is visual. 

----
Therefore, let me apply this process to chess. 

To start, what theories do I want to falsify? What questions would I like to answer?
 - I've chosen, after speaking with Margo, to investigate the use of pawn structures in chess games. I only have the following theories right now: 
 1. Pawn structure is important
 2. Pawn structure can be found by analyzing FENs of a games. 
 3. Pawn structures of past games might inform how one should play
 - One sort of theory might involve the repercussions or consequences of a pawn structure. For instance, once can ask about closed vs. open games, and how this affects something simply, perhaps, like game length. In this case, the falsifiable theories take the form: (Open/Closed) games are usually longer. I'll take this as the first and only relevant theory to start. 

Now, what is the falsifying data for this theory? 

The most basic data is the average length of games which are either closed or open. For the purposes here, I'll take open games to be those where central pawns are exchanged in the first ten moves (or something like that). 

At this highest level, I require only one bit: True/False for the theory that closed games are usually longer. 

If I'd like more insight, I can dig a bit deeper, and compute this value myself by comparing the average length of open and closed games. 

I could go still deeper and examine standard deviation of the game length. 

The distribution of game lengths is also relevant. A histogramm of game lengths for each type could be shown. The mean and standard devation should be shown. Supposing that game length follows a normal distribution, then there should be two distributions, with one's center farther right than the other, displaying the average length of closed games is longer than open ones. 

How can the desired theories be falsified most quickly? 
 - By an automated algorithm, for sure. It might be effective to avoid displaying the original data, and instead shown the results of various ways of assessing game length, open vs. closed positions, and so on. This would allow a much broader view of the game and the method of analysis. 

--- 
This last statement is a bit odd, since it introduces a new set of falsifiable theories. It brings into view the method for assessing the open/closed traits of a game. Presumably the definition of open vs. closed is fuzzy, if not specious. As such, a theory of open/closed positions might be misguided. Instead, it might be better to come up with a metric that addresses the same issues as that distinction, but without a hard classification. This might involve measuring the number of pawns in the center or something like that. 

In this case, it might be that we want to see what predicts game length. So, we'd be testing theories of the form: (Some metric) is correlated with game length. After corroborating some such theory, it would then be the task of an investigator to explain this. 
---
The more I think about this graphic, the more obvious it is that there are many theories which the data could corroborate or falsify, but not all of these are of interest. This opens the question: how do you decide which theories are relevant?

This itself requires a theory of people, and of what they wish to know. When it comes to chess, one needs a theory of what would help someone improve their chess game, or what would be funny or interesting to chess players. 

For instance, take the example of the historical changes in how often certain openings are played. This is of interest for a few reasons. First, it shows that the game of chess is changes. It shows how quickly the game changes. It also shows how the games changes. (If the chart was unlabeled, you'd know it changed, but not how or when.) The volatility in popularity among openings is also available in the chart. It's surprising how many theories one might corroborate given a data set. The set is infinite, really, but I suspect a more discriminating view of this set could be made. 

One question I have in mind is: Which theories are worth testing? Which theories/questions are more important? Note that a question presents one with a class of theories that could serve as answers. I'm a bit interested now in the connection between queries and theories. 

---
The other question I have in mind is this: how does interactivity relate to testability? 

I think that user input allows for a wider range of testable theories. That may be it. With user input, you can provide a means of testing many more theories and allowing the user to select which ones they'd like to test. 

If this is true, then what's the point of having a single, dynamic visualization, rather than having many static ones? Presumably, the user will only ever really see a single image at a time, so one could just lay out all the possible images and allow the user to scroll through them.

In some sense, a dynamic visualization just provides users with a way to navigate the many individual images available. But, it does more than that. It also embodies a theory of which comparisons and relationships are important. 

The dynamic elements in a vis. are like an axis in a plot. They provide an orderly way to view information. 

A dynamic vis also takes advantage of the human mind's ability to see change. A collection of static images must be displayed in a very special way to allow this machinery to work. 

---
In other words, most (if not all) relevant theories are testable with collections of static images, but not quickly. The primary advantage of dynamic visualizations is speed. For a given class of theories, it can best be explored with a dynamic visualization. 

Is that true though? Where a single image suffices, why add anything else? If a single bit is all that's required, then what's the point of additional sliders and inputs? 

I think that, where a single theory is being tested, simple displays are best. But, when many different theories are being tested (especially when some depend on others), it's best to provide a way to navigate the space of images and falsifying data quickly. 

---
What have I learned here? 
 - I've clarified the role of a graphic, and argued for interactive graphics.
What's next? 
 - With regard to the design of a visualization, I think I still have some work to do. I'm really not sure what I want to include. 
Is it necessary to figure that all out right now? 
 - If it isn't, then I may as well continue to mocking up the thing. 
I could spend the next hour finishing the conceptual design of the graphic, and then create an inkscape mockup of the vis. 

An alternative is to move on to the implementation of graphics. I think this is a really hard problem, so I should probably move on to it directly. 

---
