Notes: 
1. It may be good to start each hour with an explicit goal (e.g. Find three libraries worth knowing for the project.)
2. I should redesign the cover for D3.js tips and tricks

What do I wish to accomplish during this hour? 
 - I'd like to select the tools for the job. 
I think I know which languages and tools I'll need: 
 1. Coffeescript (To easily produce javascript for web)
 2. Grunt (To compile Coffeescript easily and automatically)
 3. D3.js (To create SVG visualizations from data)
 4. (Probably not for now, but...) Mathbox (such awesome 3D graphics)
 5. HTML/CSS
 6. GSS (avoid use of css, and take advantage of new, better layout method)
 7. React (for creating components and managing updates with user feedback)
 8. Elm (great user input handling)

I suspect I'm leaving some things out here, but this is probably enough to get started. What's next? I'm least-familiar with D3.js, but I'm not all that competent with the other tools. I also don't know much about GSS.

So, there are potentially 7 practice topics. With my limited time, I'll choose to work on three subskills here.
 1. GSS
 2. D3.js
 3. React

Perhaps the main problem is using these tools together. I'm not sure. In any case, I'll spend a few minutes on D3.js first. I'll deconstruct the learning of D3 into three further subskills. 

I suspect it will be something like: 
 1. creating shapes
 2. handling user input
 3. making things look nice

---
I'm a bit stuck at the moment. Some distraction and tiredness have reached me. 
What's next? I'm a bit worried that I'm spending all my time on research, and not doing anythind useful regarding the actual skill I'm trying to build. 
---
I think the hardest, and most rewarding thing will be to master some uses of D3. Perhaps I can select three things I'd like to practive in D3. For instance, there might be a few kinds of charts that I'm likely to use. If I'm trying to just replicate the Bret Victor charts, then it's clear what kind of things I'll need. 