Let's see here. I'd like to deconstruct Bret Victor's visualization in The Ladder of Abstraction. 

I'll try to deconstruct it in four ways:
 1. Concepts
 2. Data
 3. Graphical elements
 4. Interactions

# Concepts - what theories can be corroborated/falsified by the graphic?
 1. (Sharper|wider) turning rules produce longer paths.
I'm having a hard time thinking in terms of theories. For now, I'll take a look at something simpler. What types of data are present, and what relationships are made visible?

# Types of data:
 1. Turning radius of controller
 2. Bend radius of road
 3. Path time
 4. Car paths
 
Relationships:
 1. Path time / bend radius / turn radius
 2. Path / turn radius (over all bends)
 3. Path / bend radius (over all turns)
 4. Path / turn radius / bend radius

So, there are four types of data, and four ways of showing it. Theories inexpressible in these terms are not falsifiable with this visualization. For example, one could not have a theory that referenced even these variables, but outside the tested range, like "Turning rates above 90 are unstable."

The visualization could be improved in a number of ways. First, a larger sample of turning rates and bend angles might be produced. There should also be some way to denote those paths which never reach the end of the road. It seems like this simulation limited the running time of each and simply displayed that limit for many trials, even though some combinations of road bend and control angle led to unstable paths. 

Another issue is that one should be able to click on a point, then have the secondary path plot persist. This would allow a user to control time and see the car follow the path. 

It's also a bit difficult to visualize the turning radius. I don't know the step size of the simulation, so seeing 6.1 degrees/step doesn't help much. It would be better to show the turning radius as a circle or arc. 

---
# Graphical elements
What graphical elements are present in this visualization? 
 1. Colored quadrangles representing path completion time coordinate:(bend,turn,time)
 2. Axes, labeled with bend and turn info
 3. (On hover) rectangle outline for each point
 4. (On hover) translucent line on axis hover
 5. Road (and transformed road)
 6. Path
 7. Collections of paths
 8. Note on test condition (e.g. turns by x degrees per step)

# Interactions
What interactions are allowed? 
 1. Static
 2. Hover point and move around
 3. Hover axis and move around

Some of these interactions could be improved. For instance you should be able to press a key, or otherwise enter a mode which constrains movement to some line (vertical, horizontal, or user-defined - the line could be arbitrarily shaped.) This would make it easier to explore the chart more systematically. 

---
Having deconstructed his visualization, what's next? 

I could try to imagine doing this with the chess visualization. 

What have I really learned here? 
 - I've learned what makes this graphic work, and even some ways in which it could be improved. I think that, on closer inspection, this graphic is simpler than I originally thought. It's really several different graphics in one. The key is that the different representations are linked and are easier to explore as a result. 

 In this graphic, there are really four entirely autonomous plots that are linked and so provide more information, and allow quicker corroboration than any plots alone. The plots, for instance, make it clear that that there are deficiencies (or at least some unexpected decisions) in how the algorithm was evaluated. This would not be so clear if the charts were entirely separate. 

So, when I think about making graphics like Bret Victor's, I should think in terms of many different displays, each connected somehow. The more graphics, and the more interactions, the better one will be able to test one's theories. 

Anyway, what will my next hour be devoted to? 
Let me lay out a few options: 
1. Design a chess graphic (identify required data and the shown relationships, and do a mockup)
2. Implement something in D3.js
3. read about d3.js

I'm thinking that I'd like to get a good idea what I'd like to implement, and then mock it up. 

So, I'll break up my next hour in the following way:
1. Identify data and relationships
2. Identify displays and interactions
3. Draw out some potential designs
4. Mockup up some designs in inkscape