Notes: 

So, I'll break up my next hour in the following way:
1. Identify data and relationships
2. Identify displays and interactions
3. Draw out some potential designs
4. Mockup up some designs in inkscape

Data and relationships:

What data would I like to present? 
 - Chess moves
 - Patterns in position (pawns, pieces, attacks, whatever)
 - Pieces/positions
 - dates
 - players
 - locations
 - ratings
 - white/black
 - win/loss
 - opening type

There is so much data readily available that it's likely unnecessary to add my own analysis to the data sets, although they'd be more interesting as a result. I think that there is a choice here. There is a tradeoff between the coolness of the end analysis, and the amount of time I can spend working on just the visualization skills. 

In my discussions earlier in the week, I decided to assess pawn structures in games. It should be fairly straightforward to identify those games which have the appropriate structures. 

I don't really know what kind of structures I'm looking for right now. 

But, like Bret Victor's plot, I'll choose four types of data: 
 1. Pawn Structure (which pawn structures were present in a game, and how long they lasted)
 2. Date
 3. white/black
 4. win/loss
 5. Actual moves and positions

Perhaps I should assess the changes of pawn structure throughout a game. 
For now, I've settled on using Magnus Carlsen's games to create my visualization.

Relationships: 
1. Pawn structures / black or white
2. Pawn structures / date
3. Pawn structures / win or loss
4. Pawn structures / date / win or loss
5. Positions / pawn structures

Primary questions: 
Which pawn structures are most common? 
Which are most effective?
How have the preferred pawn structures changed over time?
What are the preferred structures as white or black?

These ideas are hazy and poorly thought out so far. How can I make them clearer? 
What will the main, 3-dimension plot be? 
 - Pawn structures / date / win loss
If this is the main plot, what form will it take? Which will be the axes, and which will be the color? 
 - Date and pawn structure will be the axes / win-loss-draw will be the color.
What will happen as you hover over the plot? 
 - You'll be selecting a particular game
 ---
 Again, I've gotten a bit tired and distracted. I'll take a break and rest for a bit. 

