Notes: 

I've had some trouble mocking up my graphic, or even deciding what it should consist of. 

I'll split this hour into four parts:
1. Diagnosing and correcting the failure to make progress in the last hour
2. Carefully design the concepts in the visualization 
3. Lay out (on paper) some designs for the vis
4. Mockup up the vis in inkscape

After this hour, I'll spend some time preparing a talk for some other hackerschoolers.

# Diagnosing the problem
In the previous hour, I wan't able to really make any hard decisions. I first thought that I'd identify the pawn structures in a game, and that I could leave the specifics for later. But, I felt uncomfortable with that and thought I might do better with a display of point values over the course of a game. For instance, I could have a plot for a single game which showed which side had an advantage, as well as how many pieces (or points) were on the board. 

Really, any of these can be made to work. The problem is that I have yet to state the criteria I am trying to satisfy in this decision. The problem is that the variable shown in Bret Victor's chart are continuous and can be finely sampled. If I have only historical data to work with, they might be very scattered. It's not at all clear whether I'll be able to make a smooth graph live Victor's. In any case, the problem is this: I'd like to model my visualization on Victor's, but my dataset is different. I'm trying to determine which features of Victor's chart I should keep, and which I don't mind changing. 

For instance, if I choose to look at the number of pieces on the board at one time or another, what will that tell me? 

In this case, I have two major questions: 
 1. Should I care about the number of pieces on the board? What sort of theories does this corroborate?
 2. How would I should this? 

In the last period, I failed to make these questions explicit, and simply succumbed to doubt and confusion. Most of my stress, discomfort, and failure is the result of failing to make problems explicit, and of failing to deconstruct them into smaller problems. 

# Designing the visualization
Let's take the idea of pieces on the board for a moment. There are a number of related ideas, like simply marking events where pieces are taken. There are also questions one might have about which pieces are taken. Another point of interest might be which pieces are taken when are certain type of opening is played. 

There are other features of interest as well. Perhaps I could take a look at open files or, again, at pawn structures. There are several problems here. I'm unfamiliar with many of these chess concepts (at least to the point of giving a clear, codeable description). I'm also not sure how I'd like to display them. 

Another question I have about the design of my graphic is whether the time axis should be binned. In other words, should each game have its own column, or should games of the same year, say, share a column? I suspect I'll need to bin things. 

The criteria I'm trying to satisfy include filling the entire graphic with data. I don't want to leave white space, but I'm not quite sure what to do. 

Let me think up a few different ways to address the question of pieces throughout a game. 

First I'll ask a few questions:
What is relevant about the number of pieces on the board in a game? 
 - The number of points available is very important in determining the strength of a player's potential attacks and defenses. 
 - As a long term goal, it would be impressive to create a tool to analyze board position in a very cheap way, much like a human might, which rivalled the performance of far more expensive techniques. 

So, the most basic purpose for including the number of pieces on the board throughout a game is that is can assess who is winning, and the type of position being played. This sort of thing would allow one to determine who started an attack, who was winning, and the pace of the game. 

How might you show this sort of thing? 
- The most straightforward plot is of piece values vs. move number. You'd start off with three lines. One for black's points, one for white's points, and one for the total. The total would be used to assess the game as a whole, and the individual's lines would be used to assess advantage. 

Another, slightly different way to pursue the same sort of questions is to represent the advantage of one player like a chess engine does - if white is winning, then the line is positive. If everything is equal then the line is at zero. In this case, there would be only two lines: an advantage indicator, and an indicator of how much firepower remains on the board. 

What else is relevant here? 
Though I hesitate to choose this option, I suspect it would be interesting to show how games progress relative to the opening that was used. 

What else might be done? 
---

So, though I've been more explicit in my deliberations, I haven't settled on a good visualization design. 

Let me quickly brainstorms some of the questions I'd like to answer with this data visualization. 

How do Magnus Carlsen's games progress? 
Do they end quickly? 
How often does Carlsen lose an advantage? 
How often is Carlsen able to win from a losing position? 
Is there a wide variance in how quickly a game winds down? 
What is the classification for the different parts of the game? 
Could I identify the length of the opening, middlegame, and endgame using this method? 
How much material is still on the board at the end of the game? 


This last question admits of an interesting visualization. One way to view it is to show a histogram of how many pieces are one the board at each move. 

I think that there would be something like a wave-packet spreading as time goes on. It should be possible to show a distribution of the number of pieces on the board. At first, every game would have a sharp value corresponding to all the pieces being present. Many games would end with far fewer pieces. 

One could have a slider that does one of two things. First, it might simply scroll through moves and show the distribution of pieces at each move. Another option is to normalize the games to a period from 0 to 1, and scroll through this instead. 

I like this visualization very much. My concern now is whether this should be the main frame, or a subsidiary one. My inclination is to make it a secondary plot, since it changes and isn't very data-dense. I'd prefer to create a full-bodies two-axis+color plot as the primary element in the graphic. 

What could serve this purpose? Presumably one of the axes in this case would be move number (either actual or normalized). What would the other axis be? How might I use the outcome of the game here? I could use it as the color, as discussed earlier. This coloring would really only apply to the outcome of games, though, and I plan to show each move in a game. What would the other axis be though? Might it be the date? In this case, I'd have a grid where columns represent individual games in chronological order, and the rows represent moves. 

In this case, you'd have several ways to look at the chart. First, you'd have a view where the total number of pieces on the board was represented by color, and there would be rows for moves and columns for games. 

You could hover over a move to show the game's position. You could click on it to play that game. There might also be a static (starting point) visual showing which pieces remain on the board. So, you'd see the actual board, as well as all the starting pieces which remain on the board. 

You could hover over a point on the move axis to show a distribution of the # of pieces for that move. 

You could hover over a point on the chronological game axis to show a single game and the plots I mentioned earlier -> 1. Advantage line and 2. Firepower line. Hovering over a particular point on a game should 