Notes:

I've gotten my project mocked up, so now it's time to mock up the data, and then use it to create a mock visualization. After this is complete, I should be able to complete the analysis for my actual data set. 

So, what data do I need, and what format should it be in? 
 - In the end, I think I'll want everything in JSON, so I'll make that my format of choice. 

As a reminder, I'll have a bunch of different representations of my data. 

There will be perhaps five representations: 
1. Moves | # Pieces | Games (ordered chronologically)
2. # Pieces | % Games
3. Moves | # Pieces & Advantage
4. Board position
5. Original board position, w/ currently-present pieces.

Organized by interaction, there are: 
1. The primary view
2. The point view (hover on a single point, corresponding to a move)
3. X-axis view (corresponding to a game)
4. Y-axis view (corresponding to a move #)

All told, there are five images that need to be created. 

I'll focus just on the first for now. 

I'll need something like the following format: 
I need three pieces of information: 
 x: date (sort of, since I'll just be ordering by the date, not defining position with it.)
 y: move number
 c: number of pieces

With a list containing the number of pieces on the board after each move, both the move number and nPieces data will be available. All that's needed after that is the date. 

{
	games: 
		[
			{
				nPieces: [], <- # of pieces after each move
				date: 14034800
			}
		]
}

Next, I'll need the data for the point view. In this case, I'll be displaying some game information, along with the board position, and a display of which pieces are still present on the board (shown from the initial configuration.)

So, now I'll need the metadata, board positions, the move that was played, and the set of pieces that was present. Some of these may be calculated, and others held in memory. I'm not sure how this should be done yet, but I'll figure it out.

{
	games: 
		[
			{
				meta: 
					{ 
						white: player,
						black: player
						result: 
						whiteElo:
						blackElo:
						ECO: <- opening (perhaps I could provide links to the appropriate openings)
					}
				moves: [], <- PGN or other (perhaps better) notation
				positions: [], <- FEN, probably
				piecePositions: {A1:A1} <- key=original position, value=current position (after move)
			}
		]
}
